JS-Utility-Belt
===============

Opinionated collection of JavaScript nice-to-haves.


Introduction
------------

Each and every one of us has probably had to maintain a set of general utilities for a project or
team, which was created either because its functionality wasn't covered by well-known libraries like
[lodash](https://lodash.com/), or because its authors hadn't found an appropriate package that
already covered their needs. This is that set of utilities for JavaScript at BigchainDB.

These utilities come from our experiences of building the frontends of [ascribe.io](www.ascribe.io),
[whereonthe.net](www.whereonthe.net), and various examples with BigchainDB. Consolidating them here
allows us to have better tested and more documented utilities across our projects, with less
redesigning of the wheel when a well-built package from the community meets our needs.


Usage
-----

Simply `npm install -S js-utility-belt` and start using `import { ... } from 'js-utility-belt'`!

There are a number of outputs generated by npm after installation, dependending on your
needs:

* `js-utility-belt/lib` - Transpiled, ES5 compatible CommonJS modules (for most module bundlers) (**Default**)
* `js-utility-belt/es6` - Transpiled, ES5 compatible ES6 modules (for newer module bundlers that
  understand ES6 module and can provide tree-shaking; ie. [rollup](rollupjs.org), [jspm](jspm.io),
  [webpack@2](webpack.github.io/docs/))
* `js-utility-belt/bundle` - Transpiled, bundled, and minified UMD modules (for droppin' into your
  site)

**Note**: If using the non-bundled versions (`/es6` or `/lib`), it may still be necessary to install a few
polyfills (ie. `Symbol`) as babel doesn't include them.

### Reducing import size

Importing from the base index of either of the transpiled versions (`/lib` or `/es6`) will import
the entire package (even with treeshaking!). To make sure you only import what you need, you can
import just the module (ie. `lib/general`, `lib/cookie`, etc...) or even just the particular
function (ie. `lib/general/safe_merge`, `lib/cookie/get_cookie`) that you want.

If you have treeshaking enabled, you can safely import from the ES6 version at the module level and
let treeshaking remove any unused imports from the module (making function-level imports
unnecessary).


Development
-----------

Any added functions or modules should be structured to allow for selective imports by the user. With
this in mind, there are two rules to follow:

* Modules: Each module should be its own folder
  * Modules should include a `index.js` that re-exports all contained functions
  * Modules should be re-exported through the package's [index.js](./src/index.js) with an
    [extended-export-from](https://github.com/leebyron/ecmascript-more-export-from) statement:
    `export * as Module from './module'`
* Functions: Each function should be contained in its own file, adhering to the
  [style guide](#style-guide)'s naming scheme: the file name should be the snake_case form of the
  function's name.

### Style guide

See the [ascribe/javascript](https://github.com/ascribe/javascript) styleguide.


TODO
====
* [ ] Unit tests
* [ ] Add documentation on which utilities are available
